In 1881 architect William Brown
and Benjamin Haugh, an iron smelter owner
an idea patented for a new type of prison.
The Spinning Prison.
In retrospect, it was not such a good idea
Impractical, unsafe and extremely complex.
But that did not stop them from selling this idea
to a number of cities in the US.
The first one was built here, in Crawfordsville, Indiana.
Although there have been no prisoners for decades,
is this the only thing the mechanism still works.
The rotating prison has two floors,
and there are eight cells on each floor.
The steel monster weighs about thirty tons.
The whole is operated by a hand crank which
move both floors simultaneously.
It does not touch the walls or the bars anywhere
the whole machine moves around a central cylinder
that runs from the roof to the sewerage.
It works like a pivot where all the weight rests
on the top of the fulcrum.
At that time it was a marvel of technology.
The advantage of the rotating prison
was that there was only one doorway,
the prisoners were able to get in and out of their cell
from a pie-shaped cell block.
With only one door, fewer guards were needed
to guard the prisoners.
There is only one exit.
The crescent shape is the toilet that is welded shut.
After the construction in 1880, the prisoners had
a toilet and running water in the cell
while most houses did not even have that.
From 1882 there were some problems
until 1838 that there was only one opening on each floor.
And there was only one moving door
that prevented prisoners on the floors
jumped out of the opening when they wanted to.
In case of fire there was a risk that a guard
there had to be all prisoners one by one
to leave them in safety.
Another problem was that 50% of the prisoners
was arrested for drunkenness and in a cell
were made to make room for others later
prisoners who were brought in.
Only they fell asleep on the floor with their arms or
legs through the bars, while the machine started to turn
with their arms and legs they got stuck between the
wall and cell, limbs broke or amputated.
In 1938 they stopped running the prison,
They made a door in every cell
and installed a tour.
So they stopped running for the problems that
there were fire and because of prisoners
limbs were amputated.
What we are told, as long as we maintain it
continue to execute this machine and keep it that way
treat it, it will continue to exist.
We can then continue to run forever.
There are a number of options for improvement
The bars could have turned, not the cells.
or the complex turning mechanism had been omitted
can stay to open one cell at a time.
Which actually amounts to an ordinary prison.
The moral of the story?
Because an idea has a patent
Does not mean that is a good idea.
It only means that no one thought about it before
and sometimes there is a reason for that.